                      GOVERNMENT GAZETTE
                                                                       OF THE

                          REPUBLIC OF NAMIBIA
N$31.80                                               WINDHOEK - 29 April 2019                                                                           No. 6888

                                                                      CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                                                 Page
GENERAL NOTICE

No. 104     Communications Regulatory Authority of Namibia: Regulations Prescribing Procedures Regarding
            Application for, and Amendment, Renewal, Transfer and Cancellation of Spectrum Licences: Com-
            munications Act, 2009 ............................................................................................................................      1
                                                                ________________


                                                           General Notice
               COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

No. 104                                                                                                                                                          2019

       REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING PROCEDURES REGARDING APPLICATION FOR,
      AND AMENDMENT, RENEWAL, TRANSFER AND CANCELLATION OF SPECTRUM
                     LICENCES: COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2009

In terms of section 101(2), section 101(5), section 101(14) and section 101(16) read with section 129
of the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009) the Communications Regulatory Authority-

(a)       makes the Regulations set out in the Schedule;

(b)       amends the Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures For Telecommunications and
          Broadcasting Service Licenses and Spectrum Use Licenses published under General Notice
          No. 272 of 29 August 2011;

(c)       repeals the Regulations Regarding License Exempt Spectrum published under General
          Notice No. 395 of 25 November 2011; and

(d)       repeals the Regulations Setting Out License Conditions For Spectrum Use Licenses published
          under General Notice No. 469 of 2 December 2013.

F. KISHI
CHAIRPERSON OF THE BOARD
COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF NAMIBIA

                                         SCHEDULE

                            ARRANGEMENT OF REGULATIONS

                                       PART 1
                               INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS

1.     Definitions
2.     Objects and application of Regulations
3.     Submission of documents to the Authority

                                     PART 2
                         ADMINISTRATIVE SPECTRUM LICENSE

4.     Application procedure for right to use radio frequency spectrum
5.     Application to use spectrum together with service licence exempt telecommunications
       service categories

                                          PART 3
                                    SPECTRUM AUCTIONS

6.     Request to Bid
7.     Bidder qualification
8.     Disqualification of Bidder
9.     Notice of Bids received
10.    Award of Bid

                                PART 4
      DURATION, AMENDMENT, RENEWAL, TRANSFER AND CANCELLATION OF
                          SPECTRUM LICENCES

11.    Duration of and conditions pertaining to spectrum license
12.    Amendment of spectrum license
13.    Renewal of spectrum license
14.    Transfer of spectrum license
15.    Refusal to issue or approve the transfer of a spectrum license
16.    Withdrawal and lapse of spectrum licence
17.    Procedures where licensee does not renew spectrum license or license lapses
18.    Material breaches of spectrum license
19.    Cancellation of spectrum licence


                                PART 5
         EXEMPTIONS FROM OBLIGATION TO OBTAIN SPECTRUM LICENSE

20.    Categories of radio apparatus exempt from spectrum license
21.    Conditions of use of radio apparatus exempt from spectrum license

                             PART 7
   AMENDMENT OF REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR
TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENSES AND SPECTRUM
                          USE LICENSES

22.    Definitions
23.    Amendment of title of the Regulations
24.    Amendment of regulation 3 of the Regulations
25.    Deletion of regulation 6 of the Regulations
26.    Transitional arrangements

                                           PART 8
                                        ENFORCEMENT

27.    Regulatory actions
28.    Penalties

                                             PART 9
                                            GENERAL

29.    Oral hearings and call for written submissions
30.    Accounts
31.    Time frames for decisions
32.    Confidential information
33.    Record of proceedings
34.    Publication of licensing decisions and register of licenses
35.    Reporting, monitoring and compliance
36.    Reconsideration
37.    Condonation
38.    Ex parte communications

                                       PART 1
                               INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS

Definitions

        1.      In these Regulations, any word or expression to which a meaning is assigned in the
Act has that meaning, and -

“Act” means the Communications Act, 2009 (Act No. 8 of 2009);

“applicant” means a person applying for a spectrum license or for the amendment, renewal, transfer
or withdrawal of a spectrum license;

“Bid” means the submission of the suite of documents required in terms of a Request to Bid;

“Bidder” means an applicant which has submitted a Bid following a Request to Bid;

“Frequency Band Plan” means the Frequency Band Plan of Namibia published under General Notice
No. 424 of 28 October 2016;

“licensee” means any person to whom a spectrum license has been issued in terms of Part 2 or 3;

“Regulations Setting Out Fees For Spectrum Licenses, Certificates and Examinations” means the
Regulations Setting Out Fees For Spectrum Licenses, Certificates and Examinations published under
General Notice No. 155 of 1 June 2017;

“Regulations Prescribing Forms For Applications” means the Regulations Prescribing Forms For
Applications published under General Notice No. 328 of 19 August 2013;

“Request to Bid” means an invitation issued by CRAN to prospective Bidders to submit a Bid
complying with the qualification criteria for a spectrum auction stipulated by regulation 7;

“spectrum auction” means the process whereby the Authority uses an auction system to sell the rights
to use any radio frequency or group of radio frequencies or radio receiver over specific bands of the
radio frequency spectrum as determined by the Frequency Band Plan and to assign scarce spectrum
resources; and

“spectrum license” means a spectrum license conferring on the licensee the right to use any radio
frequency or group of radio frequencies or radio receiver under the Frequency Band Plan.

Objects and application of Regulations

           2.    (1)     The objects of these Regulations are to-

           (a)   establish the framework through which the Authority allocates radio frequency
                 spectrum under the Frequency Band Plan;

           (b)   to provide a long-term framework for conferring on a licensee the right to use any
                 radio frequency or group of radio frequencies or radio receiver under the Frequency
                 Band Plan;

           (c)   determine fair, efficient and transparent licensing procedures which an applicant
                 must follow in applying for a spectrum licence;

           (d)   provide for circumstances in which the use and possession of radio apparatus does
                 not require a spectrum license and for the categories of radio apparatus in respect of
                 which a spectrum license is not required; and

           (e)   set up a formalized process for the amendment, renewal, transfer and withdrawal of
                 spectrum licences.

           (2)   These Regulations apply to all applicants, licensees and participants in a spectrum
auction.

Submission of documents to Authority

       3.       Whenever documents are required to be delivered to the Authority, such documents
must be delivered physically or electronically-

           (a)   by hand to an employee of the Authority at its principal place of business, being
                 Communication House, No. 56 Robert Mugabe Avenue, Windhoek;

           (b)   by post mailed to Private Bag 13309, Windhoek;

           (c)   by electronic mail sent to operations@cran.na;

           (d)   by facsimile faxed to +264 61 222 790; or

           (e)   in any other manner or to any other address specified by the Authority from time to
                 time.

                                       PART 2
                          ADMINISTRATIVE SPECTRUM LICENSE

Application procedure for right to use radio frequency spectrum

        4.       (1)       The Authority may from time to time in its sole discretion publish a notice
in the Gazette notifying that a radio frequency spectrum band under the Frequency Band Plan as
specified in the notice is open for application to be conferred on a first-come-first-served basis.

         (2)      Subject to the provisions of these Regulations, any person who intends to apply for
the right to use radio frequency spectrum referred to in subregulation (1) must apply to the Authority
for a spectrum licence.

        (3)      An application referred to in subregulation (2) must be made on a form that
substantially corresponds to Form CRAN 3 set out in the Regulations Prescribing Forms For
Applications in respect of which the applicant must be particularly accurate in completing the
technical portion supplying all the details required.

      (4)      The aforesaid application must be accompanied by the following information and
documentation, namely-

        (a)     the full and official name of the applicant, and if the applicant is a juristic person, the
                registration number of that person;

        (b)     the name of a contact person responsible for liaison with the Authority on issues
                pertaining to these Regulations and the following contact details of that person-

                (i)     physical address;

                (ii)    postal address;

                (iii)   telephone number or numbers;

                (iv)    facsimile number or numbers; and

                (v)     electronic mail address or addresses;

        (c)     full details of all ownership interests in the applicant, including the identity and
                nationality of holders of such ownership interests and if the holder of any ownership
                interests is a juristic person, full details of all ownership interests in the juristic
                person;

        (d)     full details regarding foreign ownership interests in the applicant, if any;

        (e)     where the applicant is a company or close corporation, a certificate incorporation
                issued by the relevant official employed by the Ministry responsible for Trade;

        (f)     a complete, accurate and concise business plan setting out-

                (i)      a complete list of radio frequencies or groups of frequencies being applied
                         for;

                (ii)     a complete, accurate and concise statement of the services the applicant
                         intends to provide in exercising the right to use the radio frequency spectrum
                         being applied for;

                 (iii)    any other services being provided or to be provided by the applicant in
                          connection with the radio frequency spectrum applied for;

        (g)      any other information required by the Authority relevant to the application or that the
                 applicant believes might be relevant to the Authority in considering the application.

        (5)      The Authority may, after receiving an application referred to in subregulation (2),
request the applicant by written notice to provide it with additional information reasonably required
by the Authority in considering the application, which the applicant must provide to the Authority
within a reasonable period specified by the Authority in that notice.

       (6)      The aforesaid application must be accompanied by any fee payable in terms of the
Regulations Setting Out Fees For Spectrum Licenses, Certificates and Examinations.

        (7)      The Authority must forthwith publish a notice of the aforesaid application in the
Gazette and invite the public to may make written comments to the Authority within the time set out
in the notice, which time may not be less than 14 days from the date of the publication.

      (8)     The Authority will provide the opportunity to an applicant to respond to any written
comments contemplated in subregulation (7)

        (9)      An applicant’s response to public comments must be submitted in writing to the
Authority within the time set out by the Authority, which time may be not less than 14 days from
the deadline for the submission of public comments or if the notice for submissions of responses is
published in a subsequent Gazette, not less than 14 days from the date of that publication.

       (10)     The times for the submissions of public comments and applicant responses are to be
determined by the Authority in lights of the nature of the application.

          (11)     The Authority may consider written submissions not timeously filed if, in its opinion,
it is practical to do so.

        (12)    The Authority may request further written submissions, such as for further
information or clarification, which must be provided to the Authority in the time and the manner set
out by the Authority.

        (13)     All written submissions must-

        (a)      contain the name and contact details of the person making the written submissions or
                 the name and contact details of the person for whom the written submission is made,
                 if different;

        (b)      be clear and concise; and

        (c)      conform to any further requirements determined by the Authority from time to time.

         (14)    After considering any application made in terms of this regulation and any written
or oral submissions, if any referred to herein, the Authority may refuse or grant the application, in
whole or in part.

         (15)     If the Authority grants the license the Authority must issue to the applicant a spectrum
license in the form determined and subject to the conditions imposed by the Authority.

        (16)      The Authority must whether requested by an applicant or not, furnish reasons to the
applicant for its decision to grant a spectrum license.

Application to use spectrum together with service licence exempt telecommunications service
categories

        5.      (1)      The following telecommunications services categories may be provided
without a licence in terms of the Act:

        (a)      amateur service;

        (b)      aeronautical services;

        (c)      citizen band service;

        (d)      maritime service;

        (e)      navigation and radar system service;

        (f)      private ECS/ECNS; and

        (g)      alarm system service and emergency response system service.

         (2)     Subject to these Regulations, a person who intends to apply for the right to use radio
frequency spectrum under the Frequency Band Plan, in conjunction with the telecommunications
services referred to in subregulation (1), must with the changes necessitated by the context comply
with regulation 4(2) to (5).

       (3)      After considering any application made in terms of this regulation, the Authority
may refuse or grant the application, in whole or in part.

         (4)      If the Authority grants the license the Authority must issue to the applicant a spectrum
license in the form determined and subject to the conditions imposed by the Authority.

        (5)       The Authority must whether requested by an applicant or not, furnish reasons to the
applicant for its decision to grant a spectrum license.

                                            PART 3
                                      SPECTRUM AUCTIONS

Request to Bid

        6.        (1)     The Authority may from time to time in its sole discretion publish by notice
in the Gazette a notification that a radio frequency spectrum band under the Frequency Band Plan,
as specified in the notice is to be conferred on a competitive basis by means of a spectrum auction,
provided that -

        (a)      no radio frequency spectrum to be used in accordance with regulation 5 may be
                 subject to a spectrum auction; and

        (b)      only spectrum bands with a high market value or in high demand may be conferred
                 by means of a spectrum auction.

        (2)     Where the Authority determines that a spectrum auction should take place in terms
of subregulation (1), the Authority must issue a Request to Bid.

        (3)      A Request to Bid must set out-

       (a)     the subject-matter of the Request to Bid;

       (b)     the date, time and place for the submission of any Bid;

       (c)     the application fee;

       (d)     applicable qualification criteria;

       (e)     the terms and conditions relevant to the Request to Bid;

       (f)     the proposed license conditions subject to which the spectrum license conferring the
               right to use radio frequency spectrum will be issued;

       (g)     the procedures for submitting the Bid;

       (h)     conditions and procedures for-

               (i)      the amendment of a Bid; or

               (ii)    the submission of supplementary information relating to the Bid;

               (iii)   the disqualification of a Bidder from the bidding process;

       (i)     the selection process;

       (j)     the evaluation criteria;

       (k)     the spectrum auction rules or other bidding mechanism employed by the Authority
               for purpose of such auction;

       (l)     the period of validity of the spectrum license that will be issued to a successful
               Bidder;

       (m)     any other information or requirements the Authority deems necessary.

        (4)     The Authority must in accordance with the spectrum auction rules referred to in
subregulation (3)(k) determine the reserve price applicable to each spectrum block intended to be
auctioned as well as the auction method to be followed.

        (5)      In determining the radio frequency spectrum band under the Frequency Band Plan,
which is to be conferred on a competitive basis by means of a spectrum auction, the Authority must
consider and stipulate in the Request for Bids -

       (a)     the size of spectrum blocks to be auctioned;

       (b)     whether the spectrum blocks to be auctioned will be limited to one spectrum band or
               a combination of spectrum bands;

       (c)     the number of spectrum licences that will be offered;

       (d)     the imposition of network rollout obligations;

       (e)     whether spectrum spectrum caps should be imposed to prevent uncompetitive market
               dominance;

       (f)     special conditions to encourage -

               (i)      new entrants or smaller licensees to take part in spectrum auctions;

               (ii)     the provision of services not already offered in the market;


       (g)     an auction process and rules to prevent collusions and ensure transparency in the
               spectrum auction process; and

       (h)     the objects of the Act that the Authority aims to achieve in making the determination
               on spectrum blocks and the size of any spectrum blocks to be auctioned.

       (6)      For purposes of subregulations (4) and (5) -

       (a)     “reserve price” means the minimum price payable for a spectrum block to be
               conferred in terms of a spectrum auction; and

       (b)     “spectrum block” means the radio frequency spectrum band under the Frequency
               Band Plan, as determined by the Authority, which is to be conferred on a competitive
               basis by means of a spectrum auction.

Bidder qualification

         7.       (1)      The Authority will permit only those Bidders who meet the qualification
criteria referred to in subregulation (2) to participate in the bid award process.

        (2)     The qualification criteria include that -

        (a)    the Bidder complied with the procedures and manner in which to submit a Bid
               referred to in regulation 6;

        (b)    the Bidder has paid the applicable application fee;

        (c)    subject to paragraphs (d) and (e) a Bidder may comprise a consortium which may
               include the holder of a telecommunications service license or broadcasting license
               or comprise the holders of telecommunications service licenses or broadcasting
               licenses or a combination of such licensees;

        (d)    subject to paragraph (e), the Bidder must either be an established licensee in Namibia
               or the holder of a broadcasting license or a telecommunications license;

        (e)    if the Bidder does not meet the qualifications criteria set out in paragraph (d) or is a
               Bidder contemplated in paragraph (c), the Bidder demonstrated its ability to -

               (i)      meet applicable network coverage and quality of service obligations by the
                        provision of an appropriately detailed technical network roll-out plan; and

               (ii)     provide telecommunications services or broadcasting services in Namibia
                        through the provision of an appropriately detailed business plan;

       (f)      the Bidder is solvent and cannot be-

               (i)      in default of loan payments or in negotiations regarding debt settlement
                        proceedings;

               (ii)    insolvent or the subject of a liquidation or winding-up application; or

               (iii)   in the process of passing or in the position of having passed a resolution for
                       a voluntary winding up;

       (g)     the Bidder demonstrated its ability to meet the financial requirement of -

               (i)     paying at least the reserve price for the radio frequency spectrum band, in
                       respect of which it submitted a Bid;

               (ii)    building and operating a telecommunications network and providing
                       telecommunications services or broadcasting services, as the case may be,
                       by providing:

                       (aa)    an appropriately detailed financial plan which indicates the annual
                               and total funding requirement for the build and operation of the
                               telecommunications network and provision of telecommunication
                               services or broadcasting services until the business operation
                               concerned becomes self-funding;

                       (bb)    appropriately detailed financing plan which demonstrates the amount
                               and timings of the sources of funds which will be used to meeting
                               the funding requirement referred to in paragraph (bb); and

                       (cc)    independent evidence of the availability of the funds identified in the
                               financial plan; and

       (h)     the Bidder provides an appropriate bank guarantee in the form and for the amount
               stipulated by the Authority in the Request to Bid.

Disqualification of Bidder

       8.      A Bidder will be disqualified from the bidding process where such Bidder -

       (a)     submitted a Bid and is an affiliate or business associate of another Bidder or has an
               ownership or financial interest in respect of another Bidder who submitted a Bid
               relating to the same Request to Bid;

       (b)     has been granted a spectrum license conferring the right to use radio frequency
               spectrum under the Frequency Band Plan within the designated frequency range
               stipulated in the Request to Bid, unless the Bidder has less than the maximum
               bandwidth made available in terms of the aforesaid Request, in which case the Bidder
               will only be allowed to Bid for the right to use additional radio frequency spectrum
               resulting in a total conferment not exceeding the maximum bandwidth available;

       (c)     submitted more than one Bid relating to the designated range of radio frequency
               spectrum stipulated in the Request to Bid;

       (d)     submitted a Bid containing false or misleading information;

       (e)     is colluding or attempting to collude with another Bidder in order to distort or
               manipulate information;

       (f)     obtained or acquired confidential information regarding another Bidder;

        (g)     failed to comply with the terms and conditions relevant to the Request to Bid; or

        (h)     failed to comply with a request by the Authority relating to a material aspect of the
                Bid.

Notice of Bids received

        9.       Once all Bids are received in accordance with a Request to Bid, the Authority must
publish a notice in the Gazette and one newspaper with national circulation -

        (a)     notifying the names of all Bidders; and

        (b)     specifying the radio frequency spectrum in respect of which the spectrum auction
                will take place.

Award of Bid

        10.       (1)     The Authority must, following a spectrum auction consequent to a Request
to Bid and after having followed the procedures set out in regulation 4(6) to (13) notify any successful
bidder and specify in such notice -

        (a)      the spectrum block assigned to the Bidder;

        (b)       the total auction price to be paid to the Authority; and

        (c)      a payment schedule detailing the terms and conditions for payment including the
                 amount and frequency of payment and the deadline by which the total auction price
                 must be made in full.

         (2)     After payment of the auction price the Authority must issue the successful Bidder
with a spectrum license in the form determined and subject to the conditions imposed by the Authority.

       (3)       The Authority must publish the results of a spectrum auction on its website and in
the Gazette.

                              PART 4
    DURATION, AMENDMENT, RENEWAL, TRANSFER AND CANCELLATION OF
                          SPECTRUM LICENCES

Duration of and conditions pertaining to spectrum license

        11.      (1)     A spectrum license issued under-

        (a)     Part 2, subject to regulation 2 of the Regulations Setting Out Fees For Spectrum
                Licenses, Certificates and Exams, No. 155 of 1 June 2017, expires on 31 December
                of the year of issue ; and

        (b)     Part 3 is valid for the period stipulated in a Request for Bid.

         (2)      All spectrum licences awarded by the Authority will be subject to conditions as set
out in the licensing conditions attached to the spectrum licence.

        (3)      Conditions referred to in subregulation (2) may include but are not limited to-

        (a)     the efficient use of spectrum;

        (b)     the shared utilization of spectrum;

        (c)     roll-out obligations which licensees must meet;

        (d)     the prohibition of trading or sub-leasing of spectrum licences;

        (e)     the prohibition of hoarding of spectrum; or

        (f)     reporting, monitoring and compliance matters in respect of the spectrum licence
                awarded.

        (4)      Without limiting any other conditions that the Authority may impose in terms of the
provisions of the Act relating to a spectrum license, a license may specify-

        (a)     guidelines, in accordance with applicable standards and requirements of the
                International Telecommunication Union and its Radio Regulations, as agreed to
                or adopted by Namibia in terms of section 99(2) of the Act, to be adopted by the
                licensee;

        (b)     universal access and service obligations to be undertaken by the licensee; or

        (c)     performance specifications to which the licensee must conform.

Amendment of spectrum license

       12.      (1)     A licensee may apply to the Authority for amendment of that licensee’s
spectrum licence.

        (2)     An application referred to in subregulation (1) must be made on a form that
substantially corresponds to Form CRAN 7 set out in the Regulations Prescribing Forms For
Applications.

        (3)      Notwithstanding subregulation (1), any changes to a licensee’s name and details
of contact persons do not require prior approval from the Authority, provided the ownership of the
licensee is not affected by such change to the licensee’s name, but the Authority must be notified in
writing of the impending change at least 14 days prior to the effective date.

        (4)     An application referred to in subregulation (1) must -

        (a)     specify the details of the spectrum licence and include a copy thereof;

        (b)     set out the reasons for the proposed amendment; and

        (c)     include any other information-

                (i)     the applicant believes might be relevant to the Authority in considering the
                        application; or

                (ii)    the Authority may require.

       (5)     An application referred to in subregulation (1) must be accompanied by any fee
payable in terms of the Regulations Setting Out Fees For Spectrum Licenses, Certificates and
Examinations.

       (6)      The Authority may request further information or documents, which must be
provided to the Authority at the time and in the manner set out by the Authority.

         (7)     Where the Authority proposes to amend a spectrum licence the Authority must
notify the licensee in writing accordingly and in its notice specify -

        (a)     the proposed amendment; and

        (b)     the reasons for the proposed amendment; and

        (c)     the date on which the Authority intends to effect the amendment, not being earlier
                than 30 days from the date on which the Authority serves the notice on the licensee.

        (8)     The licensee must respond to a notification in terms of  subregulation (6) within 30
days from the date on which the Authority serves the notice on the licensee.

        (9)     If the licensee does not respond the Authority may within the period required in
terms of  subregulation (8), amend the licence in the manner specified in the notice.

        (10)     Where the licensee responds within the period required in terms of subregulation (8),
the Authority may amend or refrain from amending the spectrum licence taking into consideration
the representations made by the licensee.

Renewal of spectrum license

       13.      (1)     A licensee to whom a spectrum license has been issued in terms of Part
3 and that also holds a telecommunications or broadcasting licence may upon the expiry of the
spectrum license apply to the Authority for renewal of that licensee’s spectrum licence.

        (2)      An application referred to in subregulation (1) must be made on a form that
substantially corresponds to Form CRAN 8 set out in Annexure 3 of the Regulations Prescribing
Forms For Applications.

         (3)     An applicant must, not earlier than six months and not later than 60 days before the
date of expiration of a spectrum licence referred to in subregulation (1), submit to the Authority -

        (a)     an application for renewal of such licence; or

        (b)     written notice of the licensee’s intention to terminate the licence.

        (4)     The application must -

        (a)     specify the details of the spectrum licence and include a copy of the said licence;

        (b)     set out the full and official name of the applicant and if a natural person, the identity
                number of that person, and if a juristic person, the registration number of that person;

        (c)     set out the name of the contact person (if different from the applicant) and the
                following contact details -

                (i)     physical address;

                (ii)    postal address;

                (iii)   telephone number or numbers;

                (iv)    facsimile numbers or numbers; and

                (v)     electronic mail address or addresses.

        (d)     provide documented proof of adherence to the conditions attached to the spectrum
                licence for consideration by the Authority;

        (e)     set out a complete and accurate statement detailing any action taken by the Authority
                or other entity with competent jurisdiction in relation to any breach or alleged breach
                by the licensee of the Act, these Regulations or the licensee’s spectrum licence; and

        (f)     include any other information the applicant believe might by relevant to the Authority
                in considering the application.

         (5)     If the Authority has not reached a decision in connection with an application for the
renewal of a spectrum licence referred to in subregulation (1) at the time when the period of validity
of that license expires, such licence continues to be of effect pending such decision.

        (6)      A spectrum license referred to in subregulation (1) may be renewed for the same
period referred to in regulation 11(1)(b) except if the Authority decides to hold a spectrum auction
in respect of the radio frequency spectrum conferred on the licensee concerned in accordance with
Part 3.

       (7)     An application referred to in subregulation (1) must be accompanied by any fee
payable in terms of the Regulations Setting Out Fees For Spectrum Licenses, Certificates and
Examinations.

        (8)     The Authority may, when considering an application for the renewal of a spectrum
licence in terms of subregulation (1), require any additional information as it deems necessary to
make a finding.

        (9)     The Authority may decline to renew a spectrum licence in terms of this regulation if-

        (a)     the licensee has contravened the Act or one or more conditions of that licence; or

        (b)     the renewal of that licence will not be in accordance with the Act or these Regulations.

        (10)    If a licensee referred to in Part 2 -

        (a)     fully settles the invoice issued by the Authority payable for the ensuing year in
                respect of the spectrum license issued to that licensee in terms of that Part, the
                licensee’s spectrum license is automatically renewed for that ensuing year; or

        (b)     fails to settle the invoice referred to in paragraph (a), the licensee’s spectrum license
                automatically lapses.

Transfer of spectrum license

        14.      (1)     A spectrum license must be used solely by the holder thereof and such
license or the control thereof is only transferable to another person with the prior approval of the
Authority upon application for such transfer by such other person.

        (2)     An application for the transfer of a licence or control of a licence must be made on a
form that substantially corresponds to Form CRAN 6 set out in the Regulations Prescribing Forms
For Applications.

        (3)      The Authority must be notified in writing of any transfer of ownership interests in a
licensee not resulting in a transfer of control or a transfer of the license at least 14 days prior to the
effective date of such transfer.

        (4)     The application referred to in subregulation (2) must be accompanied by the
following information and documentation, namely -

        (a)      the details of the spectrum licence and a copy thereof;

        (b)      the full and official name of the applicant, and if the applicant is a juristic person, the
                 registration number of that person;

        (c)      the name of a contact person responsible for liaison with the Authority on issues
                 pertaining to these Regulations and the following contact details of that person -

                (i)      physical address;

                (ii)     postal address;

                (iii)    telephone number or numbers;

                (iv)     facsimile number or numbers; and

                (v)      electronic mail address or addresses;

        (d)      full details of all ownership interests in the applicant, including the identity and
                 nationality of holders of such ownership interests and if the holder of any ownership
                 interests is a juristic person, full details of all ownership interests in the juristic
                 person;

        (e)      full details regarding foreign ownership interests in the applicant, if any;

        (f)      comprehensive reasons for the transfer of the license or control thereof;

        (g)      where the applicant is a company or close corporation, a certificate of incorporation
                 issued by the relevant official employed by the Ministry responsible for Trade;

        (h)      a detailed statement of the expertise and experience of the applicant to render the
                 services for which the spectrum license was issued (in this regulation referred to as
                 “the services”) including but not limited to -

                (i)      evidence of the financial and human resources of the applicant necessary to
                         render the services; and

                (ii)     a description of the key personnel of the applicant, including their detailed
                         curricula vitae; and

        (i)      any other information required by the Authority or that the applicant believes might
                 be relevant to the Authority in considering the application.

       (5)     An application referred to in subregulation (2) must be accompanied by any fee
payable in terms of the Regulations Setting Out Fees For Spectrum Licenses, Certificates and
Examinations.

        (6)     The Authority must, after having satisfied itself that an applicant complies with
subregulation (4) approve the transfer of the spectrum license in the form determined, and subject to
the conditions imposed, by the Authority.

         (7)    If the Authority approves the transfer of spectrum license, it must endorse on such
license the details of the new licensee having control of the license or to whom the license was
transferred.

Refusal to issue or approve the transfer of a spectrum license

         15.    (1)      If the Authority intends to refuse to issue or approve the transfer of a
spectrum license, the Authority must inform the applicant of the reasons for such intended refusal
and invite the applicant to make written submissions on why such issue or transfer should not be
refused.

       (2)      After consideration of the written submissions referred to in subregulation (1), the
Authority may, in the form determined, and subject to the conditions imposed, by the Authority -

        (a)     issue to the applicant a spectrum license;

        (b)     approve the transfer of the spectrum license to the applicant; or

        (c)     refuse to issue or approve the transfer of the spectrum license, whereupon the
                Authority must inform the applicant of the reasons for such refusal.

Withdrawal and lapse of spectrum licence

        16.       (1)     If a licensee intends to permanently discontinue providing the services for
which the spectrum license was issued, it must request the Authority to withdraw its licence by
submitting to the Authority an application on a form that substantially corresponds to Form CRAN
9 set out in the Regulations Prescribing Forms For Applications.

        (2)     The application referred to in subsection (1) must -

        (a)     specify the details of the spectrum licence and include a copy thereof;

        (b)     the full and official name of the applicant, and if the applicant is a juristic person, the
                registration number of that person;

        (c)     the name of a contact person responsible for liaison with the Authority on issues
                pertaining to these Regulations and the following contact details of that person -

                (i)      physical address;

                (ii)     postal address;

                (iii)    telephone number or numbers;

                (iv)     facsimile number or numbers; and

                (v)      electronic mail address or addresses;

        (d)     set out a complete, accurate and concise statement of the reason or reasons for the
                proposed withdrawal;

        (e)     set out the date the licensee intends to permanently discontinue providing service
                which date must be at least 60 days after the date the application is submitted;

        (f)     contain -

                (i)      a migration plan for any customer of the licensee that may be affected by the
                         withdrawal of the spectrum license;

                (ii)     an analysis of the impact of such withdrawal on such affected customers;

                (iii)    a communication plan to affected customers;

        (g)     contain an inventory of radio apparatus employed by the licensee and an e-waste
                management plan;

        (h)     indicate whether the licensee has paid all fees payable to the Authority in relation to
                the spectrum licence; and

        (i)     include any other information the applicant believes might be relevant to the
                Authority in considering the application.

        (3)      The Authority may before approving an application referred to in subregulation (1) -

        (a)     request further information or documentation, which must be provided to the
                Authority in the time and the manner set out by the Authority;

        (b)     conduct a public hearing in terms of the Act; or

        (c)     following consultation with the licensee impose reasonable conditions on the licensee
                with respect to the migration of customers of the licensee or end-users.

        (4)      Subject to subregulation (5), a spectrum license issued to a licensee -

        (a)     who does not hold a telecommunications service license or broadcasting license
                automatically lapses after the end of the period referred to in regulation 11(1)(b) in
                which event subregulation (3) applies;

        (b)     who holds a telecommunications service license or a broadcasting license
                automatically lapses if that telecommunications service license or broadcasting
                license terminates or lapses; and

        (c)     in terms of these Regulations automatically lapses if the licensee fails to pay the
                applicable fees in terms of the Regulations Setting Out Fees For Spectrum Licenses,
                Certificates and Examinations by the due date indicated on the invoice the Authority
                issued to the licensee, in which event regulation 17 applies.

        (5)      Notwithstanding subregulation (4)(c), the Authority may, upon good cause shown,
condone the late payment of the applicable fees payable in terms of that subregulation, in which
event the spectrum license will subject to regulation 11(1)(a) continue to be valid.

Procedures where licensee does not renew spectrum license or license lapses

        17.      (1)     In the event that a licensee failed to renew a spectrum license or that license
lapses and the licensee continues to use the radio frequency spectrum after the end of that licensee’s

license year, the Authority must prior to seizing or sealing radio apparatus or equipment used in
rendering the services related to the license-

        (a)     issue a notice to the person in question notifying the person -

                (i)     that continued use of any radio fequency spectrum is unlawful;

                (ii)    to desist from such continued use within 10 days of the notice;

                (iii)   to inform the person’s end-users, customers or subscribers, if any, within
                        seven days of receipt of the notice of the date on which the person will stop
                        using the radio frequency spectrum; and

                (iv)    to make written representations to the Authority regarding the notice within
                        five days of receipt thereof, should the person is so inclined.

        (b)     consider any written representations the person has made in terms of paragraph (a)
                (iv) and inform the person of the Authority’s decision and reasons for the decision.

         (2)    If after considering any written representations made in terms of subregulation (1)
(a)(iv), the Authority’s decision in terms of subregulation (1)(b) is that the person concerned is
unlawfully making use of radio frequency spectrum, then such person must -

        (a)     within 10 days of receipt of the Authority’s decision cease making use of the radio
                frequency spectrum; and

        (b)     within five days of receipt of the decision, inform the person’s end-users, customers
                or subscribers, if any, of of the date on which the person will stop using the the radio
                frequency spectrum.

         (3)     Failure by the affected person to comply with subregulations (1)(a) and (2) will
cause the Authority to seize and seal any radio apparatus or equipment used by such person and
instituting enforcement proceedings in terms of the Act and these Regulations.

Material breaches of spectrum license

         18.      (1)     Without limiting any other grounds on which the Authority may cancel a
spectrum licence in terms of the Act, the following events, whether specified as a licence condition
or not, constitute material breaches of a spectrum licence by a licensee justifying the cancellation or
suspension of the licence concerned:

        (a)     failure by the licensee to -

                (i)     offer services within six months of the issue of the licence;

                (ii)    meet any material quality of service targets as may be determined by the
                        license conditions applicable to the licence;

                (iii)   comply with any material roll-out obligations imposed by the Authority
                        upon the licensee;

                (iv)    pay any penalty imposed by the Authority in terms of the Act or these
                        Regulations;

                (v)     comply with a material license condition;

                (vi)    comply with material obligations relating to the power output or location of
                        radio frequency transmitters; or

                (vii)   pay any fees payable to the Authority in relation to a spectrum licence;

        (b)     insolvency of a licensee or its liquidation in terms of any laws in force in Namibia
                or any other country; or

        (c)     submission of false or deliberately misleading information to the Authority in respect
                of an applications for a spectrum license.

        (2)    In considering whether there was a material breach of a spectrum license, the
Authority must consider-

        (a)     the severity of the breach;

        (b)     the circumstances giving rise to the breach; and

        (c)     any adverse impact occassioned by the breach.

Cancellation of spectrum licence

        19.       (1)    If  the Authority is satisfied that a licensee has in terms of regulation 18
committed a material breach of its spectrum license the Authority may be written notice to that
licensee inform the licensee that the Authority intends to cancel such spectrum licence and in such
notice state the grounds for such intended action.

         (2)     A spectrum licensee may, within 30 days from the date of receipt of a notice referred
to in subregulation (1), make written representations to the Authority in connection with this matter.

        (3)     After consideration of the representations referred to in subregulation (2) or, if no
such representation have been made, upon expiry of the period mentioned in that subregulation the
Authority may-

        (a)     if it is satisfied that it is just and equitable to do so in a particular case, by written
                notice to the licensee withdraw the notice referred to in subregulation (1); or

        (b)     by written notice to the licensee and by notice published in the Gazette cancel the
                spectrum licence referred to in subregulation (1) and prohibit such spectrum licensee
                with effect from a date specified in those notices, from providing services in respect
                of which such spectrum license was licensed.

                               PART 5
        EXEMPTIONS FROM OBLIGATION TO OBTAIN SPECTRUM LICENSE

Categories of radio apparatus exempt from spectrum license

        20.      The use and possession of the categories of radio apparatus set out in Annexure
B do not require a spectrum licence in Namibia, provided that the conditions imposed on those
categories radio apparatus are adhered to.

Conditions of use of radio apparatus exempt from spectrum license

        21.      (1)     The use and possession of the categories of radio apparatus set out in column
B of the table included in Annexure B, must be in accordance with the frequencies, limitations,
specifications and standards set out in columns A, C, D, and E of the table.

        (2)     Prior to use and possession of radio apparatus without a spectrum licence in Namibia,
the radio apparatus must be type-approved by the Authority, or upon request to the Authority, by
any other regulatory authority in a country other than Namibia in accordance with the Regulations In
Respect of Type Approval And Technical Standards For Telecommunications Equipment published
under General Notice No. 22 of 30 Januray 2015.

        (3)     The use and possession of radio apparatus without a spectrum licence in Namibia,
may not cause interference to any person operating radio apparatus or otherwise using radio frequency
spectrum in accordance with a licence issued or deemed to have been issued by the Authority under
the Act or any Regulations made under the Act.

       (4)      The use and possession of radio apparatus without a spectrum licence in Namibia,
must accept interference from any person operating radio apparatus or otherwise using spectrum in
accordance with a licence issued or deemed to have been issued by the Authority under the Act or
any Regulations made under the Act.

                            PART 7
  AMENDMENT OF REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSING PROCEDURES FOR
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND BROADCASTING SERVICE LICENSES AND
                    SPECTRUM USE LICENSES

Definitions

        22.    For purposes of this Part, “the Regulations” means the Regulations Regarding
Licensing Procedures For Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service Licenses and Spectrum
Use Licenses published under General Notice No. 272 of 29 August 2011.

Amendment of title of the Regulations

        23.     The Regulations are amended by -

        (a)     the substitution for the title of the following title -

                “Regulations Regarding Licensing Procedures For Telecommunications and
                Broadcasting Service Licenses”;

        (b)     the deletion of the words “spectrum use” wherever it occurs.

Amendment of regulation 3 of the Regulations

        24.     Regulation 3 of the Regulations is amended by the deletion of subregulation (3).

Deletion of regulation 6 of the Regulations

        25.     Regulation 6 of the Regulations are deleted.

Transitional arrangements

        26.      (1)      Any spectrum license issued to a licensee in terms of the Regulations prior
to the commencement of these Regulations is deemed to be issued in terms of these Regulations,
subject to all conditions attached to such license.

        (2)     Any proceedings in connection with an application for a license still pending at
the date of commencement of these Regulations must, with effect from that date, be deemed to
be an application in terms of these Regulations and must further be administered, considered and
completed by the Authority hereunder.

       (3)      A licensee to whom a spectrum license has been issued in terms of the Regulations
is deemed to have been issued such license in terms of these Regulations.

                                           PART 8
                                        ENFORCEMENT

Regulatory actions

        27.     (1)     The Authority may exercise any of the powers conferred upon it in terms of
the Act for ensuring compliance of these Regulations.

        (2)     Without detracting from or limiting the generality of subregulation (1), the Authority-

        (a)     shall prosecute regulatory offences and enforce the provisions of these Regulations
                in terms of sections 114 to 127 of the Act, where applicable;

        (b)     may approach a court of law to obtain urgent interdictory or other suitable relief
                in respect of any licensee or other person who contravenes the provisions of these
                Regulations.

        (3)    In the exercise of its powers and functions in terms of these Regulations, the
Authority may act of its own accord or upon a complaint from an aggrieved person.

Penalties

        28.      (1)     Any licensee that fails to submit information or adhere to any regulation, is
guilty of contravening these regulations.

        (2)     Without derogating from the generality of subregulation (1), where a licensee or any
other person contravenes one or more of the regulations contained herein, the Authority may -

        (a)   issue a written warning to that licensee or person for submitting outstanding information
              where the licensee or other person is guilty of not submitting information as required
              by these Regulations;

        (b)   impose a penalty of not more than N$500,000.00 for -

              (i)     every failure by a licensee or other person to comply with any requirement or
                      obligation contained in these Regulations;

              (ii)    each submission or causing the submission of false or misleading information
                      to the Authority; or

              (iii)   every failure to submit any documents or information as required pursuant to a
                      written warning issued in terms of paragraph (a); or

        (c)     take any other measure the Authority regards as reasonable in the circumstances.

       (3)      In considering whether to impose any penalty and the quantum thereof in terms of
subregulation (1), the Authority must consider -

        (a)     the severity of the contravention;

        (b)     the circumstances that gave rise to the contravention; and

        (c)     any adverse impact occassioned by the contravention.

        (4)      Any amount of penalty payable in terms of paragraphs (b) or (c) of subregulation (2)
constitutes a debt due to the Authority by the licensee or other person involved and may be recovered
by the Authority by means of proceedings instituted in any competent court.

         (5)     Notwithstanding subregulations (2) and (4), the Authority may waive the payment
of or refund the whole or any part of a penalty payable.

        (6)     Before imposing any penalty as contemplated by paragraphs (b), (c) or (d) of
subregulation (2), the Authority must give an affected licensee or other person the opportunity to be
heard, whereafter the Authority may -

        (a)     decide not to impose any penalty; or

        (b)     impose such penalty the Authority deems fit.

                                              PART 9
                                             GENERAL

Oral hearings and call for written submissions

                29.     (1)     If the Authority considers it necessary or appropriate, it may hear
        oral submissions in respect of any application made in terms of these regulations.

        (2)     The Authority must invite the public to make oral submissions at least 14 days prior
to any hearing convened in terms of this regulation.

        (3)     Unless otherwise specified by the Authority, hearings will be open to the public.

        (4)      The format and agenda of the hearing is at the discretion of the Authority, depending
on the nature of the proceeding, provided however, that the hearing should be informal in nature.

        (5)     All oral submissions must -

        (a)     include a statement indicating the name and contact details of the person making
                the oral submission or the name and contact details of the person for whom the oral
                submission is made, if different;

        (b)     be clear and concise; and

        (c)     conform to any further requirements determined by the Authority from time to time.

        (6)      If the Authority considers it necessary, it will provide the opportunity to a licensee
or applicant to respond to oral submissions.

        (7)     The Authority may request further oral or written submissions, for example, further
information or clarification, which must be provided to the Authority in the time and the manner set
out by the Authority.

       (8)     At the conclusion of the hearing, a concise report summarizing the oral submissions
must be prepared and place in the relevant application file by the Authority.

         (9)     The Authority may, in its sole discretion follow the procedures set out in regulation
4(6) to (13) in respect of any application for the amendment, renewal, transfer and cancellation of
any spectrum licence.

Accounts

        30.    A licensee must comply with the such cost accounting procedures and reporting as
the Authority may from time to time direct in writing.

Time frames for decisions

         31.      (1)     If any applicant does not provide all of the information required by these
Regulations in the time provided, the Authority may refuse to issue a spectrum license or approve
the transfer of such license.

         (2)      The Authority must, in respect of any license application or application for transfer or
amendment of a license make a decision within 60 days from the date of the last written submissions
of the applicant.

         (3)     In the event the Authority is unable to render a decision within 60 days of the date of
an applicant’s last written submissions, the Authority will inform the applicant of its inability and the
reasons for such inability and what measures are being taken to address the matter urgently, which
matter must then be addressed within a further maximum period of 60 days, unless the Authority
has identified extraordinary circumstances, beyond its reasonable control that makes it impossible to
render its decision within the further maximum period of 60 days.

Confidential information

        32.       If a person has designated information or documentation submitted to the Authority
as confidential, the provisions of section 28 of the Act apply.

Record of proceedings

        33.     All documents deemed relevant by the Authority for purposes of any license
application proceedings contemplated by the Act and these Regulations must be maintained by
the Authority separately for each application proceeding in files located at the head office of the
Authority and if practicable, may be uploaded on the Authority’s website.

Publication of licensing decisions and register of licenses

        34.     (1)    All decisions made in terms of these Regulations and the relevant provisions
of the Act must be communicated to applicants and licensees and other relevant parties in writing,
and may be published in the Gazette.

        (2)      The Authority’s register of licenses maintained in terms of section 27(3) of the Act
and copies of all spectrum licenses, will be held at the head offices of the Authority and if practicable,
will be uploaded on the Authority’s website.

         (3)     Except for confidential information, any person may inspect the register of licenses,
examine an issued spectrum license or   review license application proceedings files at the head
offices of the Authority during normal business hours and copies may be made on payment of a fee
determined by the Authority.

Reporting, monitoring and compliance

        35.     (1)     The Authority may, in the format determined by the Authority, request
information from licensees which is reasonably necessary to enable the Authority to discharge its
functions and duties and to monitor and ensure compliance with the Act and these Regulations.

       (2)      Without limiting the generality of subregulation (1) the Authority may request
information from licensees to -

        (a)     monitor and enforce roll-out obligations, a licensee’s quality of service, or compliance
                with license conditions;

        (b)     ensure that radio frequency spectrum is used appropriately and efficienctly and
                is not hoarded, in accordance with applicable standards and requirements of the
                International Telecommunication Union and its Radio Regulations, as agreed to or
                adopted by Namibia in terms of section 99(2) of the Act; or

        (c)     collect and compile sectoral analyses, for purposes of planning, reporting or
                conducting regulatory enquiries which are reasonably necessary to enable the
                Authority to discharge its functions and duties and to monitor and ensure compliance
                with the Act and these Regulations.

         (3)     When requesting information in terms of this regulation, the Authority must provide
a detailed specification of such request together with the deadline for the response and identify a
contact person to whom queries may be directed.

         (4)    All licensees must submit bi-annual reports to the Authority in July of each year for
the period 1 January to 30 June and in January the next year for the period 1 July to 31 December of
the preceding year, relating to -

        (a)     location and coordinates of each site from which the licensee renders the services for
                which its spectrum license is issued;

        (b)     the radio frequency spectrum used and the nature of techology employed in using the
                spectrum at each such site;

        (c)     the power output of each transmitter, if any, installed at such site; and

        (d)     any other information specified   by the Authority, in the form specified by the
                Authoriy.

Reconsideration

        36.      (1)      The Authority may in terms of section 31 of the Act reconsider any decision
or order made in terms of these Regulations, within 90 calendar days from the date of making that
decision or issuing that order.

        (2)      Any person (hereinafter “the requesting party”) may within 30 days of receiving any
decision or order made by the Authority request the Authority in writing to reconsider decision or
order subject to the following:

        (a)     The requesting party must comprehensively complete Form 1 (hereinafter “the
                Reconsideration Form”) and submit that form to the Authority within 30 days from
                date of receipt of the Authority’s decision or order.

        (b)     The Authority must within three days of receipt of the Reconsideration Form
                determine whether there are grounds for reconsideration.

        (c)     Where there are no valid grounds for reconsideration, the Authority must forthwith
                notify the requesting party of its decision and close the file pertaining to the dispute.

        (d)     Where the Authority considers that the request for reconsideration should be heard,
                the Authority must provide a copy of the Reconsideration Form to any party with a
                direct or substantial interest in the matter and simultaneously notify the requesting
                party of its decision within 7 days from the lapse of the period referred to in paragraph
                (b).

        (e)     A party with a direct or substantial interest referred to in paragraph (d) must deliver
                a response in writing to the request for reconsideration within a period of 14 days of
                receipt of the Reconsideration Form.

        (f)     Upon receipt of the response referred to in paragraph (e), the Authority must deliver
                that response to the requesting party and afford that party 14 days from receipt of the
                response to reply thereto.

        (g)     The Authority must thereafter, subject to subregulation (3), make a determination on
                whether or not to reconsider its decision or order.

        (3)       The Authority may publish its determination on reconsideration without further
submissions having been received, or it may provide an opportunity to the public to provide further
written or oral submissions, prior to making a determination contemplated in subregulation (2)(g), in
a manner stated by the Authority.

Condonation

         37.     (1)      In the event that any party is unable to comply with any timeframe set out
in these Regulations, it may request from the Authority an extension of time at least 14 days prior to
the deadline set out or within such other timeframe agreed by the Authority upon good cause shown.

         (2)    The Authority will respond to the request for condonation as soon as practicable, and
may either grant or deny the request, at its sole discretion, based on, amongst other things, the nature
of the proceeding and the reasons for non-compliance.

Ex parte communications

         38.     A person may not communicate with the members of the Board, the chief executive
officer or any staff member of, or consultant of the Authority, to discuss the subject matter of an
application pending in terms of these Regulations, except as provided for herein.

                                         ANNEXURE A

                                   FORM 1
                    RECONSIDERATION FORM (REGULATION 36(2))

In terms of regulation 36(2) of the Regulations Prescribing Procedures Regarding Application For,
And Amendment, Renewal Or Transfer Of Spectrum Licences, applications for reconsideration must
be submitted on this form within thirty (30) days from date of receipt of the Authority’s decision.

A. APPLICANT

APPLICANT:
Physical Address: _ _______________________________________________________________
Postal Address: __________________________________________________________________
Telephone number(s): _____________________________________________________________
Facsimile number(s): ______________________________________________________________
Electronic mail address(es): _ _______________________________________________________

B. CONTACT PERSON (IF DIFFERENT FROM APPLICANT)
Contact Person: __________________________________________________________________
Physical Address: _ _______________________________________________________________
Postal Address: __________________________________________________________________
Telephone number(s): _____________________________________________________________
Facsimile number(s): ______________________________________________________________
Electronic mail address(es): _ _______________________________________________________

C. RESPONDENT
Respondent: _____________________________________________________________________
Contact Person: __________________________________________________________________
Physical Address: _ _______________________________________________________________
Postal Address: __________________________________________________________________
Telephone number(s): _____________________________________________________________
Facsimile number(s): ______________________________________________________________
Electronic mail address(es): _ _______________________________________________________

D. SUMMARY OF GROUNDS FOR RECONSIDERATION
Provide an accurate and concise statement of the grounds illustrating why the Authority should
reconsider its decision.
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________

E. RELIEF SOUGHT
Provide a clear and concise statement of the specific relief or remedy sought.
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________

F. LIST OF DOCUMENTS SUPPORTING REQUEST FOR RECONSIDERATION
Provide a detailed list of the documents you wish to use in support of your request for reconsideration.
Please further ensure that the listed documents are attached to this form.
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________

G. ANY OTHER INFORMATION
Provide any other relevant information.
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________


Signed by _____________________________ at __________________________ in his/her/its
capacity as _____________________________, duly authorised and warranting such authority and
warranting that the information provided herein is true and correct, on the ______________ day
of___________, 20 ___.


_____________________
Signature


ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF RECEIPT BY CRAN:

 1.      Name:
 2.      Date:
 3.      Place:
 4.      Signature:

                                ANNEXURE B
               RADIO APPARAUS EXEMPT FROM SPECTRUM LICENSE

Explanation:

1.    The use or possession of the radio apparatus listed in Column B below, in accordance with
      the specifications listed in Columns A, C, D and E of the Table below does not require a
      spectrum license.

2.    Use and possession of all radio apparatus exempt in terms of the above table must comply
      with the following:

      2.1.     All radio apparatus must be type-approved by the Authority or by the Independent
               Communications Authority of South Africa or, upon request to the Authority, by any
               other regulatory authority in a country other than Namibia or South Africa.

      2.2.     The frequencies, transmitting power and external high-gain antenna of the radio
               apparatus must not be altered without a new type-approved certificate issued by the
               Authority or any other regulatory authority referred to in paragraph 2.1.

      2.3.     The radio apparatus must be operated within, and not exceed, the technical parameters
               set out in each of the applicable Columns C and D of the Table with respect to
               the frequency band, maximum radiated power or field strength limits and channel
               spacing, relevant standards and duty cycles and antennas to be used and contained in
               Column E.

      2.4.     The antenna of the radio apparatus must not be higher or above average ground level
               than the lowest point of the place where the radio apparatus operates effectively.

      2.5.     The radio apparatus may not cause interference with any licensed radio frequency
               spectrum.

      2.6.     The user of the radio apparatus in the license-exempt frequency spectrum operates
               on a non-interference and zero protection basis from interference.




                                          58




                                        59




                                          60

                                        61





                                        62




                                          63




                                        64




                                          65




                                        66

                                          67

                                        68





                                        69




                                          70

                                          ANNEXURE A

SUMMARY OF COMMENTS RECEIVED IN RESPECT OF GOVERNMENT GAZETTE
      NO. 6802, GENERAL NOTICE NO. 695 DATED 27 DECEMBER 2018

1.     Multichoice Namibia (Pty) Ltd

       Multichoice Namibia (Pty) Ltd’s submission submitted to the Authority on 11 February
       2011 refers.

 No.     Comment                                              Response
 1       SPECTRUM AUCTIONS

         Part 3 of the draft Regulations introduces        The Authority is mandated with the
         spectrum auctions. It does not however, indicate  management, control and planning of
         the circumstances in which the Authority will     spectrum as per section 99 of the Act and thus
         assign spectrum by means of an auction.           full oversight of the availability of spectrum
                                                           and deman for spectrum in various spectrum
         We understand that the Authority envisages and thus method of assignment is at the
         auctions only for assigning high value and high discretion of the Authority.
         demand spectrum, since the auction model is
         usually adopted in respect of scarce, high demand The proposal by Multichoice is therefore not
         spectrum.                                         accepted.

         As indicated in the Authority’s draft Spectrum
         Assignment Strategy, the spectrum acution
         (flexible rights of use) model is mostly adopted
         when the demand for spectrum is higher than the
         amount of spectrum resources available.

         We are concerned that the basis on which the
         Authority will determine that spectrum licensing
         will be subject to auction is not included in the
         draft Regulations, thus creating an uncertain
         licensing environment, which we believe is not in
         the interest of the development of the sector.

         The draft Regulations should indicate that the
         Authority may decide to assign spectrum by means
         of an auction when the demand for particular
         spectrum is higher than the amount of spectrum
         resources available.

         We are also concerned that, in terms of Reg. 6(1),
         the decision whether to follow an auction process
         is in the Authority’s sole discretion.

         In addition, the Authority’s decision to adopt an
         auction process in respect of particular spectrum
         should follow a public process and a spectrum
         audit, to determine whether particular spectrum is
         indeed scarce, high demand spectrum



     We propose that the Authority amend Reg. 6(1) to
     read as follows-
     “The Authority may from time to time, followinga
     public consultation process and, if necessary a
     spectrum audit, publish by notice in the Gazette
     a notification that a radio frequency band under
     the Frequency Band Plan, which the Authority
     has determined to be scarce and in high demand,
     as specfied in the notice is to be conferred on a
     competitive basis by means of a spectrum auction,
     provided that no radio frequency spectrum to
     be used in accordance with regulation 5 may be
     subject to a spectrum auction.”
2    ADMINISTRATIVE SPECTRUM LICENCE
     APPLICATIONS
                                                           The Authority is of the opinion that the
     The draft Regulations provide that the Authority      proposal by Multichoice is already provided
     must publish a notice that spectrum is open to be     for in Regulation 6 (1) making provisions
     conferred on a first-come-first-served basis (Reg.    that spectrum auctions only take place where
     4(1)) or on a competitive basis by means of a         there is a high demand and where spectrum
     spectrum auctin (Reg. 6(2)).                          has high market value.

     Since spectrum auctions should be limited to There is thus no need to amend Regulation
     assigning only scarce, high demand spectrum, 4(1).
     we assume that spectrum auctions will be the
     exception and not the rule. The Authority’s default
     positions should therefore be that spectrum is to
     be conferred on a first-come-first-served basis,
     unless a spectrum auctions notice is issued in
     respect of particular spectrum.

     This would reduce the administrative burden on
     the Authority, relieving it of the obligation to
     publish notices in the Gazette in respect of the
     default position. It would also allow operatorss to
     apply for spectrum as and when it is required, wich
     would contribute to an enabling environment that
     is responsive to te needs of operators, and avoid
     unnecessary bottlenecks in respect of routine
     spectrum applications

     In order to make administrative spectrum licensing
     the default position, we propose replacing Reg.
     4(1) with the following:
     Unless the Authority has published a notice in
     the Gazette in terms of regulation 6 notifying
     that a radio frequency spectrum band under the
     Frequency Band Plan as specified in the notice is
     to be conferred on a competitive basis by menas
     of a spectrum auction, spectrum is open for
     application to be conferred on a first-come-first-
     served basis in accordance with Part 2 of these
     Regulations.

3      INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR SPECTRUM
       LICENCE APPLICATIONS

       In terms of Reg. 4(4), a spectrum application must    The Authority has considered the comments
       include, amongst other things, full ownership         as submitted and deleted draft regulation
       interest, including foreign ownership interest, a     4(4)(g) in respect of submissions of financial
       certificate of incorporation, a detailed statement    and human resources together with CVs .
       of the expertise and experience of te applicant,
       including evidence of its financial and human         The remainder of the draft regulation has
       resources and a description of its key personnel      been retained as is.
       (including their CVs), and any other information
       required by the Authority.

       We are concerned that these requirements are
       extremely broad and unnecessay in circumstance
       where an applicant already holds a service licence
       in respect of which the frequency spectrum is
       intended to be used.

       Such an applicant is already known to the
       Authority and has met the criteria for the granting
       of that service licence. The requirement to include
       all of this informatin would create an unduly
       burdensome application process, which is not in
       the interest of the Authority or the applicants.

       We suggest that this be addressed by amending
       Reg. 4(4) to specify that the information listed in
       paragraphs (c), (d), (e) and (g) is required to be
       provided by applicants who do not already hold a
       service licence in respect of which the spectrum is
       intended to be used.

       Reg 4(4)(h) provides that the application must
       include “any other information required by the
       Authority” .

       This requirement is vague, in that it does not
       specify what type of other information the
       Authority may require, nor that the informaton
       must be relevant. Moreover, unless an applications
       is made pursuant to a specific invitation to apply,
       an application would not be in a position to know,
       when applyinh for the spectrum, which other
       information mights be required by the Authority.
       An applicant can therefore not be expected to
       provide other information which has not been
       requested/required by the Authority in advance of
       the application.

       In order to esure that the Authority is provided
       with appropriate and relevant information, and
       that it is clear to applicants up front what will
       be expected of them, we propose that any other
       information required by the Authority must be
       requested by the Authority within a specified
       reasonable period and must be relevant for the
       purposes of the spectrum application. We suggest
       that this can be achieve by amending Reg. 4 (4)(h)
       to reads as follows:

     “any other relevant information required by the
     Authority for the purposes of the application or
     that the applicant believes might be relevant to the
     Authority in considering the application.”

     We also suggest adding a new regulation after
     Reg. 4(4) which provides:
     “After receiving an application, the Authority may
     request the applicant to provide it with additional
     information reasonbly required by the Authority in
     considering the application, which the applicant
     shall prvide to the Authority within a reasonable
     time period specified by the Authority.”
4    APPLICANT SHOULD HAVE RIGHT TO
     REPLY TO COMMENTS MADE ON ITS
     APPLICATION
                                                             The Authority has considered the comments
     In terms of Reg 4(6), the Authority will provide        as submitted and inserted a new regulations
     an applicant with an opportunity to respond to any      4(5) that reads as follows-
     public comments “if the Authority considers it          “The Authority may, after receiving an
     necessary”.                                             application referred to in subregulation
                                                             (2), request the applicant by written notice
     This could unfairly disadvantage applicants, who        to provide it with additional information
     would not necessarily be afforded an opportunity        reasonably required by the Authority in
     to respond to all comments made in respect of           considering the application, which the
     their applicaions.                                      applicant must provide to the Authority
                                                             within a reasonable period specified by the
     In the interests of due process and fair procedure,     Authority in that notice. “
     an applicant should be afforded, as a right, an
     opportunity to respond to all comments made in
     respect of its application.

     We therefore propose amending Reg. 4(6) to read
     as follows:
     “The Authority will provide the opportunity to
     the applicant to respond to any public comments
     contemplated in subregulation (5).”
5    SPECTRUM             AUCTION            BIDDER
     QUALIFICATIONS
                                                        The Authority has considered the comments
     Existing licensees should not be disqualified from as submited and amended
     bidding                                            (i)Regulation 7(1)(c)as follows-
     Reg 7 (1)(c) provides that a Bidder comprising a   “subject to paragraphs (d) and (e) a Bidder
     consortium that includes an existing licensee will may comprise a consortium which may
                                                        include the holder of a telecommunications
     not meet the qualification criteria to participate in
     a bid award process.                               service license or broadcasting license or
                                                        comprise the holders of telecommunications
     It is not clear why a Bidder comprising consortium service licenses or broadcasting licenses or a
     that includes an existing licensee should be combination of such licensees;”
     ineligible to partipate. We are of the view that
     merely including a member which is an existing (ii) Regulation 8(h) as follows “failed to
     licensee should not disqualify a consortium from comply with a request by the Authority
     participation in the bid award process.            relating to a material aspect of the Bid.”
     To the extent that there are other material or
     substantive grounds for disqualifying persons
     from being members of a consortium, such as
     ensuring that persons not able to bid on multiple
     lots through different consortia, we suggest that
     the draft Regulations prescribe these grounds. The

       Authority may wish to consider inserting wording
       into the draft Regulations which specifies that a
       person may bid only nce in an auction on its own
       or as part of a consortium.

       Failure to comply with the Authority’s request
       relating to the Bid

       Reg.8 (h) provides that a Bidder will be disqualified
       where that Bidder failed to comply with a request
       by the Authority relating to the bid.

       Disqualification is a significant penalty, and
       ougt only to apply where the failure to comply
       relates to a material request, and where there are
       no reasonable grounds for a Bidder’s failure to
       comply with the request.

       We therefore suggest the Reg. 8 (h) be reworded
       to read-
       “failed to comply with a material request by
       the Authority relating to the bid if there is no
       reasonable basis for such failure.”
6      RENEWAL OF SPECTRUM LICENCES

       We support the automatic renewal of spectrum            The Authority has considered the comments
       licences, as a compliant licensee should have the       as submitted and inserted regulation 16(5)
       expectation that it will continue to be able to use     that reads as follows-
       the relevant spectrum.                                  “Notwithstanding subregulation (4)(c), the
                                                               Authority may, upon good cause shown,
       Broadcasting licensees in particular roll out their     condone the late payment of the applicable
       networks and provide their broadcasting services        fees payable in terms of that subregulation, in
       in reliance on particular spectrum, and they            which event the spectrum license will subject
       should be entitles to continue to do so as long         to regulation 11(1)(a) continue to be valid.”
       as they haven’t materially failed to comply with
       their applicable licence conditions. We therefore
       support the automatic renewal of the spectrum
       licence, subject to payment of the applicable fees.

       Reg. 16(4)(c) provides that a spectrum licences
       lapses automatically if a renewal fee is not paid.
       Reg. 17 sets out the applicable procedures fro
       when a licence lapses.

       Given the availability of other, less restrictive
       means by which to ensure timeous payment of
       licence fees, such as sending reminder notices
       to licensees, allowing for a limited grace period
       for payment, and the charging of interest on
       outstanding fees, we are concerned that automatic
       lapsing in all instances of failure to pay a licence
       renewal fee timeously is a harsh consequence that
       may not be appropriate to all instances of late
       payment. Delays in payments due to, for example,
       technical reasons or bona fide error, ought not to
       attract the same penalty as wilful failure to pay a
       renewal fee.

     We therefore propose that the draft Regulations
     provide for automatic lapsing after the expiry of
     the grace period, or for the charging of interest at
     the prevailing rate on outstandig fees for a limited
     period, after which the spectrum licence would
     lapse.

     We suggest that the Authority considers addressing
     this by insertig a new Reg. 16(5) to read as follows
     “The Authority may, upon good cause shown,
     condone the late payment of the spectrum renewal
     fees payable in terms of regulation 16 (4)(c), in
     which event the spectrum licence will continue to
     be a valid force and effect and shall be renewed
     for another term.”
7    WITHDRAWAL OF SPECTRUM LICENCE

     Reg. 16 introduces various requirement to be met   The Authority has considered the comments
     when a spectrum licensee intends to permanently    submitted and amended Regulation 16(3)(c)
     discontinue the services for which the spectrum    as follows-
     licence was issued.                                “following consultation with the licensee
                                                        impose reasonable conditions on the licensee
     Reg. 16 (2)(f) requires the spectrum withdrawal with respect to the migration of customers of
     application to contain a migration plan for any the licensee or end-users.”
     customer of the licensee that may be affected by
     the withdrawal of the spectrum licence, an analyis
     of the impact of such withdrawal on such affected
     customers, and a communication plan to affected
     customers.

     Reg 16(3)(c) empowers the Authority to impose
     conditions on the licensee with respect to
     migration of customers and end-users.

     These requirements relate to the discontinuation
     of the service in respect of which the spectrum
     licence was issued, rather than to te withdrawal
     of the spectrum per se. Since this relates to the
     discontinuation of the service, the spectrum
     witdrawal is incidental, and may in fact be
     irrelevant. These requirements may not always be
     necessary.

     For example, a migration plan, as contemplated in
     Reg. 16(f), might be appropriate when a service is
     discontinued, but not if spectrum is surrendered
     which does not affect the provision of the service
     or the customer experience.

     For example, if a licensee seeks withdrawal
     of a spectrum licence because it intends to use
     alternative spectrum for delivery of its service,
     the transition from the old spectrum to the
     new spectrum may well be seamless, and the
     information required by Reg. 16 (e) and (f) is not
     necessarily applicable.

     We therefore suggest that the proposed Reg.
     16(2)(f) and 16(2)(c) rather be included in the
     Regulations regarding Licensing Procedures for

       Telecommunications and Broadcasting Service
       Licences 011 (as proposed to be amended).
       Reg. 10 of those Regulations deals with the
       situation where a licnsee intends to permanently
       discontinue providing its service in accordance
       with its licence. Draft Reg. 16(2)(f) and 16(3)(c).

       We also submit that it is in the interest of fairness,
       efficiency and due process that the Authority
       consult with a licensee in order to determine the
       reasonableness and practicability of conditions to
       be imposed and the requirements to be met in term
       of Draft Reg. 16(2)(f) and 16(3)(c).

       We suggest that this be addressed by-
       (i)   Inserting the words “to the extent
             applicable” after the words “referred to in
             subsection (1)” in Reg 16(2); and
       (ii)  Amending Reg 16(3)(c) to read:
             “following consultation with the licensee,
             impose reasonable and practicable
             conditions on the licensee with respect to
             the migration of customers of the licensee
             of end-users.”
8      SPECTRUM LICENCE CONDITIONS
                                                            Section 101(2) of the Act provide as follows-
       Reg 11(3) and (4) reflect the type of conditions “(2) The Authority may issue a licence
       that the Authority may include in a spectrum conferring on the licensee the right to use, or
       licence.                                             to cause any person in his or her employ or
                                                            under his or her control to use a transmitter
       Not all of the conditions are appropriate to a for any prescribed purpose or to use any
       spectrum licence. It is our view that detailed radio frequency or group of radio frequencies
       technical and certain other specfications would or radio receiver for any purpose and in
       be better contained in a schedule to a service the manner prescriber or determined in the
       licence. These included conditions relating to the licence concerned”
       roll-out obligations (Reg. 11(30(c)), universal
       access and service obligations (Reg. 11(4)(b)) and Further thereto the Authority is of the opinion
       performance specifications (Reg. 11(4)(c)).          that the imposition of licence conditions as
                                                            contained in Regulation 11 is discretionary.
       We thereby propose that the potential licence
       conditions be clarified by-                          The comments and suggestions submitted is
       (i)     Deleting Reg. 11(3)(c), Reg. 11 (4)(b) and therefore not considered to be included in the
               Reg. 11(4)(d); and                           regulations
       (ii)    Including the relevant conditions in a
               schedule to the service licence to which the
               spectrum licence relates.
9      MATERIAL BREACHES OF SPECTRUM
       LICENCES
                                                            The Authority has considered the comments
       Reg. 18 lists events which, whether specified as as submitted and is of the opinion that its
       a licence condition or not , constitute material view is already provided for in the wording
       breaches of a spectrum licence which justify the of the preamble to Regulation 18.
       cancellation or suspension of the licence.
                                                            Further thereto the Authority has amended
       It is of concern that an event that is not listed as Regulation 18(a)(ii) and (iii) and Regulation
       a licence conditions may constitute a material 18(a)(v) and (vi) by insertion of the word
       breach of a licence. On this basis, a licence could “material”.
       be suspended or cancelled due to non-compliance
       with an event which is not a licence condition. To
       do so would be arbitrary and unfair. We submit

     that only breaches of events specified as licence
     conditions ought to constitute a breach.

     We suggest deleting the phrase whether specified
     as a licence condition or not” from Reg. 18.

     We are alco concerned that the events listed are
     very wide, such as the failure to comply with
     “any quality of service targets”, any licence
     conditions, or any roll-out obligations or power
     output/transmitter locations, regardless of the
     nature, extent or seriousness of the failure. The
     draft Regulations do not distinguish between for
     example a licensee which falls shorts of a quality
     of service target by 1% and one which falls short
     of the target by 15%.

     We suggest that this be addressed by requiring
     the breach to be material, and requiring the
     Authority to consider the severity of the event, the
     circumstances giving rise to the breach, and any
     advers impact on the relevant services.

     We support the requirement for a consultation
     process to be followed before a licence is cancelled
     or revoked, as set out in Reg. 19. However, we
     believe that it would be to the benefit of licensees
     and the Authority if licensees were first afforded
     an opportunity to remedy a failure set out in Reg.
     18 (a) before triggering a revocation/cancellation
     process.

     This would reduce the administrative burden on
     the Authority and facilitate an optimal outcome
     for all concerned, including customers.

     We therefore propose amended Reg. 18 as follows-
     “Without limiting any other grounds on which the
     Authority may cancel a spectrum licence in terms
     of the Act, the following events constitute material
     breaches of a spectrum licence by a licensee
     justifying the cancellation or suspension of the
     licence concerned.”
     (a)       material repeated failure by the licensee,
     after having first been afforded a reasonable
     opportunity to remedy such failure, to ….”

     We further suggest inserting the word “material”
     after the word “any” in Reg. 18(a)(ii) and (iii), and
     similarly to refer to “a material licence condition”
     and “with material obligations” in Reg. 18(a)(v)
     and (vi) respectively.

10     USE OF RADIO APPARATUS EXEMPT FOR
       SPECTRUM LICENCE

       We support the provisions of Reg. 21 as regards The Authority is of the opinion that section
       the use of radio apparatus exempt from spectrum 99 of the Act already makes provision
       licence.                                            for adherence to international treaties and
                                                           agreemented entered into by the Namibian
       Reg. 21 (3) and (4) deal with protection from Government. There is thus no need to insert
       interference, in this regard, we note that certain the proposed text in these regulations.
       spectrum bands are not governed by domestic
       legislation or rules because the bands are used
       across multiple territories, and we are therefore
       governed at international level. An example of this
       is where the transmission does not occur within
       Namibia, but where for example a satellite signal
       in a particular band is received in Namibia. It is
       important to ensure protection from interference
       for such legitimate services. This could be
       achieve by referring to any international treaty or
       convention that govern spectrum bands which are
       ot subject to in-country regulation.

       In order to take this situation into account,
       we suggest inserting the words “except where
       governed by any international treaty or
       convention, to which Namibia is a signatory”,
       after the words “or any Regulations made under
       this Act” in both Reg. 21(3) and Reg. 21(4).
11     INFORMATION REQUESTS

       Reg. 35 empower the Authority to request any           The Authority has considered the comments
       information from licensees to, amongst other           as submitted and amended Regulation 35(1)
       things, collect and compile sectoral analyses or       as follows-
       conducting regulatory inquiries.                       “ Authority may, in the format determined
                                                              by the Authority, request information from
       While we dot not object to he Authority’s power        licensees which is reasonably necessary
       to request relevant information, we are concerned      to enable the Authority to discharge its
       that this power is to broa. Requests for information   functions and duties and to monitor and
       should be relevant to the Authority’s regulatory       ensure compliance with the Act and these
       functions and duties.                                  Regulations.”
       We thereore propose that the Authority be
       empowered to request information that is relevant
       and related to specfic provisions of the relevant
       legislation, and that is reasonably required by
       the Authority in order to discharge its duties and
       functions

       We suggest that Reg. 35(1) be amended as follows-
       “The Authority may, in the format determined
       by the Authority, request any information from
       licensees which is reasonbly necessary for the
       discharge of its functions and duties to monitor
       and ensure compliance with the Act and these
       Regulations.”

     We suggest the Reg. 35(2)(c) be amended as
     follows-
     “Without limiting the generality of subregulation
     (1) the Authority may request relevant information
     from licensees which it reasonably requires
     in order to administer the Act to.... collect and
     compile sectoral analyses, for the purpose of
     planning, reporting or conducting regulatory
     enquiries in accordance with the Act.”

     We suggest that Reg. 35(3) be amended as follows-
     “When requesting information in terms of this
     regulation, the Authority must provide a detailed
     specification of such request together with the
     purpose for which it is requested in terms of the
     Act, and a reasonable deadline for the response,
     and identify a contact person to whom queries
     may be directed.”
12   PENALTIES

     Reg. 28(1) and (2) provide that any licensee          The Authority has considered the comments
     that fails to submit information or adhere to         as submitted and inserted Regulation 28(3)
     any regulations is guilty of contravening the         that read as follows-
     regulations and liable to a penalty of up to N$
     500,000 for each contravention.                     In considering whether to impose any
                                                         penalty and the quantum thereof in terms
     The draft Regulations do not distinguish between of subregulation (1), the Authority must
     egregious and minor contraventions of the draft consider-
     Regulations and nor do they afford a licensee an
     opportunity to remedy a contravention prior to the (a)       the severity of the contravention;
     imposition of a penalty.                            (b)      the circumstances that gave rise to
                                                         the contravention; and
     We propose that the Authority be required to (c)             any adverse impact occassioned by
     consider the nature of the contravention in each the contravention.”
     case, and apply a penalty that is fair, just and
     equitable taking into account various actors such
     as the severity of the contravention, whether
     the licensee could be directed to remedy the
     contravention, whether the licensee has taken
     steps to remedy the contravention of its own
     accord, and whether the licensee is a first-time or
     repeat offender.

     In this regard we propose inserting the followig
     new sub-paragraph after Reg. 28(2) to read-
     In determining the penalty to be imposed, the
     Authority shall take into account the circumstances
     of the contravention, which may include the
     nature and severity of the contravention, the steps
     that could be taken by the licensee to remedy the
     contravention, whether the licensee has taken
     such steps to remedy non-compliance and the
     availability to te Authority of other means to
     secure compliance.

2.     Mobile Telecommunications Limited

       Mobile Telecommunications Limited (MTC) submission submitted to the Authority on 11
       February 2019 refers

No.       Comment                                               Response
1         AD REGULATION 2(c)
                                                                The draft regulations is procedural in nature
          “determine fair efficient and transparent             and sets out the regulatory process to be
          licensing procedures”                                 followed in respect of spectrum licences.
          Fair should be regarded in terms of the
          Regulations prescribing Quality of Service            The Authority is thus of the opinion that there
          Standards applicable to Service Licences and in       is no correlation with the Quality of Service
          correlation of the market share.                      regulations nor the market share of a licensee.
2         AD REGULATION 4(1)

          We propose to add to Regulation 4(1),-                The Authority has considered the comments
          “and with due regard to the industry needs” and       and conclude that no changes are required to
          after “at its sole discretion” and before “publish    the draft regulations in respect to spectrum
          a notice in the Gazette”                              licence to be awarded on a first-come-first-
                                                                serve basis.
          We further propose to add a sub clause hereunder
          that would allow for the Authority to consider
          a band open for application upon request by a
          licensee and such licensee providing reasong in
          the interest of the consumer.
3         AD REGULATION 4(4)(g)

          The entire Regulation is irrelevant, in that          The Authority has considered the comments
          in order to apply for a spectrum licence, an          as submitted and deleted draft regulation
          Applicant must have an operating licence              4(4)(g) in respect of submissions of financial
          conferred by the Authority. Surely, the Authority     and human resources together with CVs .
          upon issuing of such licence would be satisfied
          that the licensee meets requirements to provide a
          telecommunications service.

          Alternatively, the Authority could consider
          amplifying the definition of Applicant to read:
          “Applicant means a telecommunications service
          licence holder applying for spectrum licence.”
4         AD REGULATION 4
                                                                The Authority has considered the comments
          We propose to add Regulation 4(14)-                   as submitted and inserted Regulation 4(16)
          “If the Authority refuses to grant the licence, the   that read as follows-
          Authority must issue the Applicant with reasons       “The Authority must whether requested by
          for its decision.”                                    an applicant or not, furnish reasons to the
                                                                applicant for its decision to grant a spectrum
                                                                license.”
5.        AD REGULATION 5

          We propose to add Regulation 5(5)-                    The Authority has considered the comments
          “If the Authority refuses to grant the licence, the   as submitted and inserted Regulation 5(5)
          Authority must issue the Applicant with reasons       that read as follows-
          for its decision.”                                    “The Authority must whether requested by
                                                                an applicant or not, furnish reasons to the
                                                                applicant for its decision to grant a spectrum
                                                                license.”

6.   AD REGULATION 7(2)(c)

     Kindly advise whether it is the intend of the         The Frequency Band Plan allows for sharing
     Authority for spectrum to be shared between           of spectrum in respect of allocation of
     licensees. In the event that the provision excludes   spectrum to more than one service in the
     existing licensees, kindly advise in terms of         same band.
     which provisions of the Act, it is permissable to
     issue spectrum licences to non-licensees.             Section 101(1) of the Act make provision
                                                           that no person may use spectrum unless that
                                                           person has a spectrum licence.

                                                           Section 101(2) states-
                                                           The Authority may issue a licence conferring
                                                           on the licensee the right….to use any radio
                                                           frequency or group of radio frequences or
                                                           radio receiver for any purpose and in the
                                                           manner prescribed or determined in the
                                                           licence concerned”

                                                           The Authority is therefore of the opinion
                                                           that it is clear that any person may apply
                                                           for a spectrum licence. The use of spectrum
                                                           is no exlusively reserved for service licence
                                                           holders providing telecommunications or
                                                           broadcasting services, but also applies to
                                                           those persons providing services in relations
                                                           to licence exempt service categories as set out
                                                           in Regulation 5(1).
7    AD REGULATION 7(2)(e)

     Assuming the “paragraph (e)” reference is a The Authority corrected the reference to
     typo and should be paragraph (d)” kindly advise paragraph (d).
     whether it is the intende of the Authority to issue
     spectrum licences to non-licensees and if so, on
     what premise and interms of which section in the
     Act.
8    AD REGULATION 7 (2)(g)(ii)

     Spectrum licences should only be awarded Please refer to the Authority’s position in
     subsequent to an operating licence being respect of Regulation 7 (2)(c).
     awarded, otherwise it assumes that an operating
     licence will be automatically awarded, which
     negates the right of the public to object against
     n applications as provide for in terms of the Act.
9    AD REGULATION 8(b)

     This Regulations is not clear, kindly elaborate, in   Section 101(2) of the Act provide as follows-
     terms of the Act and exisiting Regulations there      “(2) The Authority may issue a licence
     is no limit on maximum bandwidth. Further,            conferring on the licensee the right to use, or
     to impose a maximum bandwidth without                 to cause any person in his or her employ or
     consideration of the Licensee’s customer base         under his or her control to use a transmitter
     and effect that such a limited would have on the      for any prescribed purpose or to use any
     consumer. Consideration should be on a case by        radio frequency or group of radio frequencies
     case basis, on the Authority’s discretions based      or radio receiver for any purpose and in
     on facts.                                             the manner prescriber or determined in the
                                                           licence concerned”

                                                        The Authority is thus empowered to
                                                        consideration that amount of spectrum to be
                                                        made available for assignment taking into
                                                        consideration the demand for spectrum by all
                                                        persons concerned to ensure adherence to the
                                                        objects of the Act.
10     AD REGULATION 11(1)(a)

       We propose to add at the end of sentence the The Authority has considered the comments
       following-                                          as submitted and concluded that the matter
       “and renewable annually on payment of has been address in Regulation 13.
       application fee and licence fees”
       This addition is in line with the provisions of the
       Act.
11     AD REGULATION 18(a)

       We propose that any breaches for which a The Authority is of the opinion that Regulation
       spectrum licence can be revoked be limited to 18 already pertains to spectrum licences on as
       breach in terms of the spectrum licence only, contained in the preamble to this regulation.
       in the interest of fairness. It is trite in law that
       material breach (warranty repudiation) can only
       be in terms of the conditions placed upon by
       nature of such instrument. As such we propose
       to delete Regulation 18(a)(ii) if same refers
       to the general operating licence; (iv) and (vi)
       alternative limit these to applicability to the
       spectrum licence awarded.
12     AD REGULATION 18(c)

       We propose to add at the end of the sentence the The Authority has considered that comments
       following-                                       as submittd and amended regulation 18(c)
       “in respect of the application for spectrum accordingly
       licence”.
                                     ________________

